= Foreman API bindings for Ruby

== Summary

Usage:

  require 'foreman_api'
  require 'logger' # optional

  architectures = ForemanApi::Resources::Architecture.new(
    {
      :logger => Logger.new(STDOUT), # optional
      :base_url => 'http://foreman-url', 
      :username => 'admin', 
      :password => 'changeme'
    })

  puts architectures.index.inspect

== Description

This gem contains Foreman API bindings for the Ruby language. The
bindings are generated from API documentation using
{Apidoc}[https://github.com/Pajk/apipie-rails] tool.

The bindings brings support for new versioned API which is not
complete yet. The number of supported controllers is limited but more
are coming soon.

=== Regenerating bindings

The code for generating the bindings is a part of this repo. The
generator needs a running Foreman instance to load the apidoc.json.

Usage:

    bin/generate.rb -h
    Script for generating API bindings for Foreman API from Apipie docs.
        -u, --url FOREMAN_APIDOC_URL     By default http://localhost:3000/apidoc
        -h, --help

Only files under +lib/foreman_api/resources+ are touched by the generator.

=== Authentication

Foreman API uses OAuth for authentication, you need to provide url, key and
secret. Also, it is required to provide user which will be used for the request
if oauth_map_users setting in the Foreman instance is set, otherwise 401 error
will occur and Foreman log will state "users mapping error".

When setting base_url make sure it *does not* include trailing slash, otherwise
request can be refused with 401.

  require 'foreman_api'

  architectures = ForemanApi::Resources::Architecture.new(
    {
      :base_url => 'http://foreman-url', 
      :oauth => {
        :consumer_key    => 'katello',
        :consumer_secret => "shhhh" 
      }
    },{
      :headers => {
        :foreman_user => "admin",
      }
    })

  puts architectures.index.inspect

== License

The bindings are released under MIT license 
